1.7.0-beta1 blog post (#287)
opentofu/opentofu.org: blog/2024-04-18-opentofu-1-7-0-beta1.md

---
title: Get ready for OpenTofu 1.7.0-beta1
slug: opentofu-1-7-0-beta1
image: /img/blog/opentofu-1-7-0-beta1.png
---

This version brings you provider-defined functions and significant improvements from the alpha version. Now we are asking for your help again to test this version.

> As with the [alpha version](/blog/help-us-test-opentofu-1-7-0-alpha1/), we did everything we could to test this version and would like you to help us test this version on **non-production** workloads. [Grab your copy on GitHub](https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/releases/tag/v1.7.0-beta1) and let us know what you think using [this form](https://github.com/TODO).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with the [alpha version](/blog/help-us-test-opentofu-1-7-0-alpha1/), we did everything we could to test this version and would like to ask for the help of the community to help us test this version on **non-production** workloads. [Grab your copy on GitHub](https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/releases/tag/v1.7.0-beta1) and let us know what you think using [this form](https://github.com/TODO).
```

| **MacOS**<br />(Macbook pre-M1 or lower; AMD64)                                 | [tofu_1.7.0-beta1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz](https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/releases/download/v1.7.0-beta1/tofu_1.7.0-beta1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz) |
| **Intel/AMD Linux computer or server**<br />(AMD64)                             | [tofu_1.7.0-beta1_linux_amd64.tar.gz](https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/releases/download/v1.7.0-beta1/tofu_1.7.0-beta1_linux_amd64.tar.gz)   |
| **ARM-based Linux computer<br />or<br />Raspberry Pi 3 or higher**<br />(ARM64) | [tofu_1.7.0-beta1_linux_arm64.tar.gz](https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/releases/download/v1.7.0-beta1/tofu_1.7.0-beta1_linux_arm64.tar.gz)   |

For the releases above, please unpack the archive and you should find the `tofu` binary inside. You can also use the [standalone installer](https://opentofu.org/docs/intro/install/standalone/) to download the release with signature verification.

## Provider-defined functions

> The new Terraform provider SDK adds support for provider-defined functions you can use directly in OpenTofu. This is a significant improvement over using data sources as provider-defined functions don't increase the size of your state file and require less code to write.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new Terraform Plugin SDK added support for provider-defined functions that you can use directly in OpenTofu. This is a significant improvement over using data sources as provider-defined functions don't increase the size of your state file and require less code to write.
```

Also, I wonder if we talk about how people were using data-sources before to work around this issue, and this is a more "native" way of doing things?

> To test, you can use the [corefunc](https://github.com/northwood-labs/terraform-provider-corefunc) provider by Ryan Parman:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to test provider-defined functions, you can use the [corefunc](https://github.com/northwood-labs/terraform-provider-corefunc) provider by Ryan Parman:
```

> To test, you can use the [corefunc](https://github.com/northwood-labs/terraform-provider-corefunc) provider by Ryan Parman:

Reviewer: Might be nice to link to Ryan's github etc, give him some extra love here.

> To test, you can use the [corefunc](https://github.com/northwood-labs/terraform-provider-corefunc) provider by Ryan Parman:

Reviewer: I wonder if we link to the docs for this function too, like this page? https://library.tf/providers/northwood-labs/corefunc/latest

```hcl
terraform {
  required_providers {
    corefunc = {
      source = "northwood-labs/corefunc"
      version = "1.4.0"
    }
  }
}

provider "corefunc" {
}

output "test" {
  value = provider::corefunc::str_snake("Hello world!")
  # Prints: hello_world
}
```

:::tip

> If you are interested in a detailed breakdown of this function and some of the unique features OpenTofu brings in this area, [join our live stream on April 24](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6OXBv0MYalY). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are interested in a detailed breakdown of this functionality and some of the new unique features OpenTofu brings in this area, [join our live stream on April 24](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6OXBv0MYalY). 
```

In previous OpenTofu versions, you could already use the `import` block to declaratively import resources, for example:

```hcl
resource "random_id" "test_id" {
  byte_length = 8
}

import {
  to = random_id.test_id
  id = "Y2FpOGV1Mkk"
}

output "id" {
  value = random_id.test_id.b64_url
}
```

In this new version you can now also declaratively import resources in a loop: 

```hcl
variable "server_ids" {
  type = list(string)
}

resource "random_id" "test_id" {
  byte_length = 8
  count = 2
}

import {
  to = random_id.test_id[tonumber(each.key)]
  id = each.value
  for_each = {
    for idx, item in var.server_ids: idx => item
  }
}

output "id" {
  value = random_id.test_id.*.b64_url
}
```

The example above will let you specify some random IDs from a variable, and let others be automatically generated.

## State encryption

State encryption is one of the flagship features of this release. Since the alpha release we overhauled the migration process from unencrypted to encrypted state files and the rollback mechanism to make the syntax more explicit.

> Before you test this feature, please **make a backup** of your state file. You can then add the following block to enable state encryption:

Reviewer: we should also link to the docs here if we can.

- New function: [templatestring](https://1-7-0-alpha1.opentofu.pages.dev/docs/language/functions/templatestring/)
- New function: [base64gunzip](https://1-7-0-alpha1.opentofu.pages.dev/docs/language/functions/base64gunzip/)
- New function: [cidrcontains](https://1-7-0-alpha1.opentofu.pages.dev/docs/language/functions/cidrcontains/)
- New function: [urldecode](https://1-7-0-alpha1.opentofu.pages.dev/docs/language/functions/urldecode/)
- New function: [issensitive](https://1-7-0-alpha1.opentofu.pages.dev/docs/language/functions/issensitive/)
- [nonsensitive](https://1-7-0-alpha1.opentofu.pages.dev/docs/language/functions/nonsensitive/) no longer returns an error when the applied values are not sensitive.
- [templatefile](https://1-7-0-alpha1.opentofu.pages.dev/docs/language/functions/templatefile/) now supports recursion up to a depth of 1024.

## CLI changes

There are also several changes to the CLI:

- `tofu init` now supports the `-json` flag for JSON output.
- `tofu plan` now has a `-concise` flag to shorten the plan output.
- `tofu console` now works on Solaris and AIX.
- The CLI now supports the XDG directory specification.

> - Aliases for `state list` &rarr; `state ls`, `state mv` &rarr; `state move`, `state rm` &rarr; `state remove`.

Reviewer: These may be nicer to show as a nested list instead of on one line. It feels a little cramped right now
